docs: 5.0.0 release docs test retries (#2925)
cypress-io/cypress-documentation: source/guides/guides/test-retries.md

---
title: Test Retries
---

{% note info %}
# {% fa fa-graduation-cap %} What you'll learn

- What are test retries?
- Why is test retries important?
- How to configure test retries
{% endnote %}

## Introduction

A scenario that often comes up when running end-to-end (E2E) tests is that tests may be unintentionally flaky (i.e., unreliable) and fail intermittently. For example, because E2E tests often involves multiple integrations, it is not uncommon to have services that have intermittent outages. Some other common race conditions that could result in unreliable tests include:

- Animations
- API calls
- Test server / database availability
- Resource dependencies availability
- Network issues

Just like an average user, if they run into an error when loading your application, you would want them to refresh and try again before submitting a bug report. However, without test retries, this often resulted in random failed tests and broken continuous integration (CI) build fails which are a waste of resources. As a result, rather than fail the entire test run, Cypress 5.0 introduces native test retries.

## How It Works

> By default, tests being run in `cypress run` mode will automatically be retried up to two additional times (for a total of three attempts) before being marked as a failed test. When each test is run again, the following lifecycle hooks will be re-run on each attempt:

Author: Agreed. That's the main reason why I decided to use the term 'mode' so it wouldn't be so foreign when they configured it. Maybe we could change the API to just use "run" and "open" instead?

- `before`
- `beforeEach`
- `afterEach`
- `after`

> The following is a detailed step-by-step example of how test retries will work by default:

Author: Good suggestion! I shall create one to help better illustrate this

{
  "retries": 1
}
```

However, in the event you need to define unique retry attempts for the different modes of Cypress, you can pass the `retries` option an object with the following options:

- `runMode` allows you to define the number of test retries when running `cypress run`
- `openMode` allows you to define the number of test retries when running `cypress open`

```jsx
{
  "retries": {
    // Configure retries for `cypress run` 
    // Default is 2
    "runMode": 1,
    // Configure retries for `cypress open`
    // Default is 0
    "openMode": 3
  }
}
```

### Custom Configurations

#### Individual Test(s)

In the event a specific test requires a custom number of test retries configured, this can be achieved by using the test's local configuration option.

```jsx
// Customizing retries for an individual test
describe('User sign-up and login', () => {
  // `it` test block with no custom configuration
  it('should redirect unauthenticated user to sign-in page', () => {
    ...
  })

  // `it` test block with custom configuration
  it('allows user to login', { 
    retries: {
      runMode: 3,
      openMode: 2
    }
  }, () => {
    ...
  })
})

```

#### Test Suite(s)

> If you want a suite of tests to re-run in requires a custom number of test retries configured, this can be achieved by using the test's local configuration option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want a suite of tests to re-run a custom number of times, this can be achieved by using the suite's configuration option.
```

```jsx
// Customizing retries for a suite of tests
describe('User bank accounts', {
  retries: {
    runMode: 3,
    openMode: 1,
  }
}, () => {

>   // Individual tests will be run normally

Reviewer: >// Individual tests will be run normally

What? I'm confused, won't any test inside of the suite retry if it fails now that I said to retry 3 times? Why does it say they 'run normally'?

Reviewer: I'm still confused by this comment. Can you clarify what it means by 'individual test will be run normally' - as I understand it all tests in the suite will have 3 attempts in run mode here.

  it('allows a user to view their transactions, () => {

>     ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // ...
```

  }

  it('allows a user to edit their transactions, () => {

>     ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // ...
```

  }
})

```

You can find more information about custom configurations here: {% url "Test Configuration" configuration#Test-Configuration %}

> ## Assets

Reviewer: I would probably name this section 'Screenshots and Videos', to be more descriptive - if I'm looking for how Cypress handles the screenshots now, I would scan the page to find 'Assets'. We really only use the term `assets` for one configuration variable and not in the docs themselves. 

```suggestion
## Screenshots and Videos
```

> With test retries, Cypress will now generate any assets (i.e., screenshots, video recordings, etc.) per each test attempt. The assets will be properly labeled with the attempt number appended at the end of each asset.

Reviewer: I don't really think there is an etc here is there? What is there beyond screenshots and videos? If there is something, I would be more descriptive. 

```suggestion
With test retries, Cypress will now generate any screenshots and videos per each test attempt. These will be properly labeled with the attempt number appended at the end of each filename.
```

    🖼 Insert screenshot

## Tips and Strategies

While test retries are great for helping to avoid false negatives from failing an entire test run, it is not a good replacement for writing good tests. As a result, here are some tips and strategies to keep in mind in order to maximize the effectiveness of your tests with test retries:

> - If you are noticing that you need to increase the number of retries, this cause is more likely due to how the tests are written and is worth spending the time to investigate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you are noticing that you need to increase the number of retries, the cause is more likely due to how the tests are written and is worth spending the time to investigate.
```

> - If you use `Run all specs` a lot in `cypress open` mode, make sure to configure your Cypress instance to have a global `retries` of `2` so you can simulate what is being run in `cypress run` mode.

Reviewer: I don't think this is a good suggestion honestly and I'm interested to hear the motivation behind why this is suggested.

We don't want people using 'Run all specs' in general. Global hooks **will run differently** in 'Run all specs' as opposed to `cypress run`, so the test retries **will run differently** if they turn them on for both run and open mode and do 'Run all specs' versus `cypress run`, which I think will make things more difficult for them to debug.

Author: That's a fair point! I wasn't aware that there using the "Run all specs" was considered an anti-pattern. I'll go ahead and remove it. Thanks for clarifying!

## Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

> #### Will runs with test retries be counted as more than one run?
> 
> No. When recording to the Cypress Dashboard, runs with test retries will be counted as a single run.

Reviewer: We don't charge per **run**, we charge per **test**. So, a single `it` definition is counted in your billing. This is VERY important to get the right terminology here as people are confused very often. Just avoid the use of the term 'run' altogether when discussing billing. 

```suggestion
#### Will tests that retry be counted as more than one test recording in my billing?

No. Tests recorded during `cypress run` with the `--record` flag will be counted the same with or without test retries.

We consider each time the `it()` function is called to be a single test for billing purposes. The test retrying will not count as extra test recordings in your billing.

You can always see how many tests you’ve recorded from your organization’s Billing & Usage page within the {% url "Dashboard" https://on.cypress.io/dashboard %}.
```

Author: @jennifer-shehane Thanks for clarifying the terminology. I had heard "run" used a couple of places and thought it was the more generic / appropriate term, but now I know better! Appreciate it 🙏

{% note warning 'Firefox Garbage Collection' %}
Cypress triggers Firefox's internal garbage collection (GC) to better manage the browser's memory consumption. {% url "Learn more here" configuration#firefoxGcInterval %}.
{% endnote %}

Excluding {% url "Electron" launching-browsers#Electron-Browser %}, any browser you want to run Cypress tests in needs to be installed on your local system or CI environment. A full list of detected browsers is displayed within the browser selection menu of the {% url "Test Runner" test-runner %}.

> {% imgTag /img/guides/cross-browser-testing/cypress-browser-selector.png "Cypress Test Runner with Firefox selected as the browser" "no-border" %}

Reviewer: I don't understand why this is here. 🤔 What does Firefox GC have to do with test retries? What does needing to install browsers have to do with test retries? Seems out of place.

If necessary, this is a better image of the browser dropdown imo, since it highlight all browsers we support. I'm not sure how we ended up with 2 images. 

{% imgTag /img/guides/browser-list-dropdown.png "Select a different browser" %}

Author: Ah these were left for snippet reference purposes. They will be deleted shortly once I add the new screenshots

{% endnote %}

## Introduction

End-to-end (E2E) tests excel at testing complex systems. However, there are still behaviors that are difficult to verify and make tests unintentionally flaky (i.e., unreliable) and fail intermittently due to unpredictable conditions (eg., temporary outages in external dependencies, random network errors, etc.)  Some other common race conditions that could result in unreliable tests include:

- Animations
- API calls
- Test server / database availability
- Resource dependencies availability
- Network issues

With the new test retries feature, Cypress (5.0+) will be able to retry failed tests to help reduce test flakiness and continuous integration (CI) build failures. By doing so, this will save your team valuable time and resources so you can focus on what matters most to you.

## How It Works

As of Cypress 5.0, test retries are on by default in `cypress run` mode. This means that tests will automatically be re-run up to two additional times (for a total of three attempts) before being marked as a failed test. When each test is run again, the following lifecycle hooks will be re-run on each attempt:

- `beforeEach`
- `afterEach`

> 

Reviewer: I think it'd be to specifically note that we do not rerun `before` and `after` hooks in a `{% note warning %}` here.

    🖼 Insert screenshot for CLI and UI

In addition, you will be able to see the number of attempts made in the Command Log and expand each attempt for further inspection and debugging if desired.

    🖼 Insert screenshot

## Configuring Test Retries

Starting with Cypress 5.0, if any tests fail, they will be automatically:

- Retried up to two times (for a total of three attempts) in `cypress run` mode
- Run normally with no retries in `cypress open` mode

The reason for this distinction is to avoid wasting developer time by preventing unnecessary runs while a test is being worked on.

If you need more information on how to migrate to 5.x, please see our official migration guide here.

### Global Configuration

If you need to change the number of attempts being made across your entire test suite for both `cypress run` and `cypress open`, you can configure this in your `cypress.json` by defining the `retries` property and giving it the desired number.

```jsx
{
  "retries": 1
}
```

#### Disable Test Retries

If you would like to disable test retries, you can use the global configuration to do so by setting it to 0.

```jsx
{

>   "retries": 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "retries": 0
```

If you want a specific test to run a custom number of retries, you can set this by using the {% url "test's configuration" writing-and-organizing-tests#Test-Configuration %}.

```jsx
// Customize retries for an individual test
describe('User sign-up and login', () => {
  // `it` test block with no custom configuration
  it('should redirect unauthenticated user to sign-in page', () => {
    // ...
  })

  // `it` test block with custom configuration
  it('allows user to login', {
    retries: {
      runMode: 2,
      openMode: 1
    }
  }, () => {
    // ...
  })
})
```

### Test Suite(s)

If you want a suite of tests to re-run a custom number of times, you can do this by setting the suite's configuration.

```jsx
// Customizing retries for a suite of tests
describe('User bank accounts', {
  retries: {
    runMode: 2,
    openMode: 1,
  }
}, () => {
  // Individual tests will be run normally
  it('allows a user to view their transactions, () => {
    // ...
  }

  it('allows a user to edit their transactions, () => {
    // ...
  }
})
```

You can find more information about custom configurations here: {% url "Test Configuration" configuration#Test-Configuration %}

> # Screenshots

Reviewer: I removed 'Videos' from this section. We only ever take a single video per `cypress run`. As far as I understand it - test retries would have zero effect on the actual video that is recorded.

```

You can find more information about custom configurations here: {% url "Test Configuration" configuration#Test-Configuration %}

## Assets

With test retries, Cypress will now generate any assets (i.e., screenshots, video recordings, etc.) per each test attempt. The assets will be properly labeled with the attempt number appended at the end of each asset.

    🖼 Insert screenshot

## Tips and Strategies

While test retries are great for helping to avoid false negatives from failing an entire test run, it is not a good replacement for writing good tests. As a result, here are some tips and strategies to keep in mind in order to maximize the effectiveness of your tests with test retries:

- If you are noticing that you need to increase the number of retries, this cause is more likely due to how the tests are written and is worth spending the time to investigate

> - If you use `Run all specs` a lot in `cypress open` mode, make sure to configure your Cypress instance to have a global `retries` of `2` so you can simulate what is being run in `cypress run` mode.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 'User Sign-up and Login -- should display login errors (failed) (attempt 3).png'

Reviewer: I am really confused here - why are there 6 screenshots taken for 3 attempts of a test run? If you're trying to show named screenshots like `cy.screenshot()` versus screenshots taken during failure - this needs to be explicitly clarified. 

**A lot** of our users manipulate the screenshots after being taken and the naming is important to them. This needs to be very clear how we're doing this.

# Tips and Strategies

While test retries are great for helping to avoid false negatives from failing an entire test run, it is not a good replacement for writing good tests. Here are some tips and strategies to keep in mind in order to maximize the effectiveness of your tests with test retries:

> - If you are noticing that you need to increase the number of retries, the cause is more likely due to how the tests are written and is worth spending the time to investigate.

Reviewer: This section is very weak, almost so much so that I would recommend removing it. If we want to offer strategies this should be stronger - right now it's like 'write better tests' 🤷 .

Reviewer 2: agreed ^

Reviewer 3: The section is trying to explain why you might adopt test retries in your test suite and to beware of the bandaid solution that retries _could_ be. I think this message is important to explain to users, but perhaps isn't needed right now.

---
title: Test Retries
---

{% note info %}
# {% fa fa-graduation-cap %} What you'll learn

- What are test retries?

> - Why is test retries important?

Reviewer 4: It seems weird to have "What *are* test retries" and "Why *is* test retries important" together. Is "test retries" the feature plural or singular?

Author: Good catch @CypressCecelia!

```jsx
{
  "retries": 1
}
```

## Custom Configurations

### Individual Test(s)

If you want a specific test to run a custom number of retries, you can set this by using the {% url "test's configuration" writing-and-organizing-tests#Test-Configuration %}.

```jsx
// Customize retries for an individual test
describe('User sign-up and login', () => {
  // `it` test block with no custom configuration
  it('should redirect unauthenticated user to sign-in page', () => {
    // ...
  })

  // `it` test block with custom configuration
  it('allows user to login', {
    retries: {
      runMode: 2,
      openMode: 1
    }
  }, () => {
    // ...
  })
})
```

### Test Suite(s)

If you want a suite of tests to re-run a custom number of times, you can do this by setting the suite's configuration.

```jsx
// Customizing retries for a suite of tests
describe('User bank accounts', {
  retries: {
    runMode: 2,
    openMode: 1,
  }
}, () => {

>   // Individual tests will be run normally

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  // The per-suite configuration is applied to each test
  // If a test fails, it will be retried
```

---
title: Test Retries
---

{% note info %}
# {% fa fa-graduation-cap %} What you'll learn

- What are test retries?
- Why is test retries important?
- How to configure test retries
{% endnote %}

# Introduction

End-to-end (E2E) tests excel at testing complex systems. However, there are still behaviors that are hard to verify and make tests flaky (i.e., unreliable) and fail sometimes due to unpredictable conditions (eg., temporary outages in external dependencies, random network errors, etc.).  Some other common race conditions that could result in unreliable tests include:

- Animations
- API calls
- Test server / database availability
- Resource dependencies availability
- Network issues

With test retries, Cypress is able to retry failed tests to help reduce test flakiness and continuous integration (CI) build failures. By doing so, this will save your team valuable time and resources so you can focus on what matters most to you.

# How It Works

By default, tests will not retry when they fail. You will need to {% urlHash "enable test retries in your configuration" Configure-Test-Retries %} to use this feature.

> When test retries is on, tests will automatically be retried up to X additional times based on your desired configuration. For example, if test retries is set to `2`, it will retry tests up to 2 additional times (for a total of 3 attempts) before potentially being marked as a failed test.

Reviewer 2: > For example, if test retries is set to `2`, it will retry tests up to 2 additional times

what is "it"? should we say "Cypress"

When each test is run again, the following {% url "hooks" writing-and-organizing-tests#Hooks %} will be re-run also:

- `beforeEach`
- `afterEach`

{% note warning %}

> However, `before` and `after` hooks will not be run in next attempts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, failures in `before` and `after` hooks will not trigger a retry.
```

{% endnote %}

**The following is a detailed step-by-step example of how test retries works:**

Assuming we have set test retries to `2` (for a total of 3 attempts), the following is how the tests would run.

1. A test runs for the first time. If the {% fa fa-check-circle green %} test passes, Cypress will move forward with any remaining tests as usual.

2. If the {% fa fa-times red %} test fails, Cypress will tell you that the first attempt failed and will to run the test a second time.

{% img /img/guides/test-retries/attempt-2-start.png %}

3. If the {% fa fa-check-circle green %} test passes after the second attempt, Cypress will continue with any remaining tests.

> 4. If the {% fa fa-times red %} test fails a second time, it will make the final third attempt to re-run the test.

Reviewer 2: another "it"

{% img /img/guides/test-retries/attempt-3-start.png %}

5. If the {% fa fa-times red %} test fails a third time, Cypress will mark the test as failed and then move on to run any remaining tests.

{% img /img/guides/test-retries/attempt-3-fail.png %}

The following is a screen capture of what test retries looks like on the same failed test when run via {% url "`cypress run`" command-line#cypress-run %}.

{% img /img/guides/test-retries/cli-error-message.png %}

During {% url "`cypress open`" command-line#cypress-open %} you will be able to see the number of attempts made in the {% url "Command Log" test-runner#Command-Log %} and expand each attempt for review and debugging if desired.

{% video local /img/guides/test-retries/attempt-expand-collapse-time-travel.mp4 %}

# Configure Test Retries

## Global Configuration

> If you want to change the number of attempts being made for all tests run for both `cypress run` and `cypress open`, you can configure this in your {% url "configuration file" command-line#cypress-open-config-file-lt-config-file-gt %} (`cypress.json` by default) by defining the `retries` property and giving it the desired number of retries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to change the number of attempts being made for all tests run for both `cypress run` and `cypress open`, you can configure this in your {% url "configuration file" command-line#cypress-open-config-file-lt-config-file-gt %} (`cypress.json` by default) by defining the `retries` property and setting the desired number of retries.
```

> ```jsx
> {
>   "retries": 1
> }
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```jsx
{
  "retries": {
    "runMode": 2,
    "openMode": 0
  }
}
```

this is recommended global configuration since users likely don't want retries enabled in open mode (slows down iteration on fixing regressions and writing tests)

Reviewer: I think this is explicitly defined below, but maybe the section for modes should come first.

### Disable Test Retries

If you would like to disable test retries completely (the default configuration), you can use the global configuration to do so by setting `retries` to 0.

```jsx
{
  "retries": 0
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: remove since it isn't default and thus has no use case

Reviewer: yeah...I was thinking this also...

> ### Configure specific retries for different modes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Only enable retries in `run` mode
```

I can't think of a use case for having different amounts of retries in openMode vs runMode, I think it would be best to use this section as an example of `runMode: 2`, `openMode: 0`

If you want to define different retry attempts for `cypress run` versus `cypress open`, you can pass the `retries` option an object with the following options:

- `runMode` allows you to define the number of test retries when running `cypress run`
- `openMode` allows you to define the number of test retries when running `cypress open`

```jsx
{
  "retries": {
    // Configure retries for `cypress run`
    // Default is 0
    "runMode": 2,
    // Configure retries for `cypress open`
    // Default is 0
    "openMode": 1
  }
}
```

## Custom Configurations

### Individual Test(s)

> If you want a specific test to run a custom number of retries, you can set this by using the {% url "test's configuration" writing-and-organizing-tests#Test-Configuration %}.

Reviewer 2: "run a custom number of retries" 

what's the agreed upon way to say this? So far in this document I've seen:
- "number of times to retry a test if [it] fails"
- "number of test retries"
- "retry attempts"
- "number of attempts being made for [a test]"
- "suite of tests to re-run a custom number of times"

I think we would be causing unnecessary confusion by saying it all these different ways

Reviewer: 😅

Author: Great point @Bkucera! Going to try and restructure this.

```jsx
// Customize retries for an individual test
describe('User sign-up and login', () => {
  // `it` test block with no custom configuration
  it('should redirect unauthenticated user to sign-in page', () => {
    // ...
  })

  // `it` test block with custom configuration
  it('allows user to login', {
    retries: {
      runMode: 2,
      openMode: 1
    }
  }, () => {
    // ...
  })
})
```

### Test Suite(s)

If you want a suite of tests to re-run a custom number of times, you can do this by setting the suite's configuration.

```jsx
// Customizing retries for a suite of tests
describe('User bank accounts', {
  retries: {
    runMode: 2,
    openMode: 1,
  }
}, () => {
  // Individual tests will be run normally
  it('allows a user to view their transactions, () => {
    // ...
  }

  it('allows a user to edit their transactions, () => {
    // ...
  }
})
```

You can find more information about custom configurations here: {% url "Test Configuration" configuration#Test-Configuration %}

# Screenshots

> With test retries, Cypress will take a separate screenshot for each test attempt. These will be properly labeled with the attempt number appended at the end of each filename.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a test retries, Cypress will continue to take screenshots and suffix each new screenshot with `(attempt n)`, corresponding to the current test attempt.
```

With the following test code, you would see the below screenshot filename when all 3 attempts fail:

```js
describe('User Login', () => {

>   it('displays login errors', () => {
>     cy.visit('/')
>     cy.screenshot()
>     // ...
>   })

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  it('displays login errors', () => {
    cy.visit('/')
    cy.screenshot('my-image')
    // ...
  })
```

})
```

```js

> // screenshot filename from cy.screenshot() on 1st attempt
> 'User Login -- displays login errors.png'
> // screenshot filename on 1st failed attempt
> 'User Login -- displays login errors (failed).png'
> // screenshot filename from cy.screenshot() on 2nd attempt
> 'User Login -- displays login errors (attempt 2).png'
> // screenshot filename on 2nd failed attempt
> 'User Login -- displays login errors (failed) (attempt 2).png'
> // screenshot filename from cy.screenshot() on 3rd attempt
> 'User Login -- displays login errors (attempt 3).png'
> // screenshot filename on 3rd failed attempt
> 'User Login -- displays login errors (failed) (attempt 3).png'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// screenshot filename from cy.screenshot() on 1st attempt
'my-image.png'
// screenshot filename on 1st failed attempt
'User Login -- displays login errors (failed).png'
// screenshot filename from cy.screenshot() on 2nd attempt
'my-image (attempt 2).png'
// screenshot filename on 2nd failed attempt
'User Login -- displays login errors (failed) (attempt 2).png'
// screenshot filename from cy.screenshot() on 3rd attempt
'my-image (attempt 3).png'
// screenshot filename on 3rd failed attempt
'User Login -- displays login errors (failed) (attempt 3).png'
```

Reviewer: Yah, I thought about this, but...I guess I maybe want people to see the exact behavior if they don't pass any argument to `cy.screenshot()`? I know this makes it more confusing but...don't they kind of need to understand this?

Author: This is an interesting point for sure. I think in this case, it would probably be nice to surface that user's have this ability to name their screenshots. Users who aren't used to doing this should be able to follow this given the simplicity of the example, so I think there is merit to @Bkucera's change.

```

# Dashboard

> If you are using the {% url "Cypress Dashboard" dashboard %}, test retries will not change your current experience at this time. However, if you are interested in future enhancements coming to the Dashboard experience, be sure to check out our {% url "product roadmap" https://cypress-io.productboard.com/roadmap/1238172-product-roadmap %}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using the {% url "Cypress Dashboard" dashboard %}, information related to test retries is not currently shown. Surfacing this information and other analytics related to test retries is on our {% url "product roadmap" https://cypress-io.productboard.com/roadmap/1238172-product-roadmap %}.
```

Reviewer: Well, it will show the extra screenshots though and show the retries in the recorded video, so this isn't entirely accurate right? Hmm...

## How It Works

> By default, tests being run in {% url "`cypress run`" command-line#cypress-run %} mode will automatically be retried up to 2 additional times (for a total of 3 attempts) before being marked as a failed test. When each test is run again, the following {% url "hooks" writing-and-organizing-tests#Hooks %} will be re-run on each attempt:

Author: No longer relevant due to disabled default
